Biden official claims special counsel report was 'Comey moment'


      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2024 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by
      
Factset
. Powered and implemented by
      
FactSet Digital Solutions
.
      
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by
      
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com.
An unidentified 
Biden official
 compared Special Counsel Robert Hur's decision not to recommend criminal charges against the president to a similar decision made during investigations into former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton.
Hur did not recommend charges
 against President Biden after a monthslong investigation into the president's alleged improper retention of classified records — despite finding "evidence that President Biden willfully retained and disclosed classified materials after his vice presidency when he was a private citizen."
"It felt like a Comey moment for me," the Biden official reportedly told Politico.
BIDEN 'DID NOT REMEMBER WHEN HE WAS VICE PRESIDENT,' WHEN HIS SON BEAU DIED, DURING SPECIAL COUNSEL INTERVIEWS
President Biden delivers remarks at the White House in Washington, D.C.
 
(REUTERS/Kevin Lamarque)
The official was comparing the Biden report to a similar document filed in 2016 by 
then-FBI Director James Comey
.
Comey, investigating whether then-presidential candidate Hillary Clinton improperly handled classified document, did not recommend charges despite "evidence of potential violations."
Both investigators cited the unlikelihood of successfully bringing charges against the individuals and the logistical nightmare of making the charges as reason not to act.
NO CHARGES FOR BIDEN AFTER SPECIAL COUNSEL PROBE INTO IMPROPER HANDLING OF CLASSIFIED DOCUMENTS
U.S. former Federal Bureau of Investigation Director James Comey arrives to give closed-door testimony to the House Oversight and House Judiciary committees, as part of their probes into Comey's 2016 handling of the investigation into former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton's email use, on Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C.
 
(REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst - RC1B268A80B0)
The Biden official speculated to Politico that Hur pushed his "thumb on the scale during an election season" with his decision.
Biden lashed out Thursday night at reporters following an address where he remained defiant following the release of Hur's damning report, which fueled more questions about his mental acuity.
Biden got into a combative exchange with CNN correspondent MJ Lee, who pressed him on his previous comments 
urging Americans to "watch me"
 when he was asked about his age.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Special Counsel Robert Hur delivers remarks during a ceremony at the Robert F. Kennedy Main Justice Building in Washington, D.C.
 
(Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images)
"Many [of the] American people have been watching, and they have expressed concerns about your age," Lee said.
"That is your judgment!" Biden shouted at her. "That is your judgment! That is not the judgment of the press."
Fox News Digital's Joe Schoffstall, Brooke Singman, David Spunt, and Jake Gibson contributed to this report.
Timothy Nerozzi is a writer for Fox News Digital. You can follow him on Twitter @timothynerozzi and can email him at timothy.nerozzi@fox.com
Get the latest updates from the 2024 campaign trail, exclusive interviews and more Fox News politics content.
Subscribed
You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2024 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by
        
Factset
. Powered and implemented by
        
FactSet Digital Solutions
.
        
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by
        
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      