Biden ghostwriter escapes special counsel charges despite deleting evidence


      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2024 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by
      
Factset
. Powered and implemented by
      
FactSet Digital Solutions
.
      
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by
      
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com.
President Biden's
 ghostwriter will not face charges despite deleting evidence of the sharing of classified material during the investigation.
Mark Zwonitzer — who collaborated with Biden on his memoir "Promise Me, Dad" — erased audio files in his possession that contained "significant evidentiary value," according to a report 
published by Special Counsel Robert Hur
. 
Zwonitzer admitted to the FBI that he "was aware that there was an investigation" when he deleted the evidence. 
NO CHARGES FOR BIDEN AFTER SPECIAL COUNSEL PROBE INTO IMPROPER HANDLING OF CLASSIFIED DOCUMENTS
President Biden delivers remarks at the White House in Washington, D.C., on Thursday.
 
(REUTERS/Kevin Lamarque)
Hur began investigating Biden’s improper retention of classified records last year. 
Those records included classified documents about military and 
foreign policy in Afghanistan
, among other records related to national security and foreign policy, which Hur said implicated "sensitive intelligence sources and methods." 
"When asked whether he deleted the recordings to try and prevent investigators from obtaining them, Zwonitzer said that he did not," the report states.
BIDEN 'DID NOT REMEMBER WHEN HE WAS VICE PRESIDENT,' WHEN HIS SON BEAU DIED, DURING SPECIAL COUNSEL INTERVIEWS
Copies of the memoir by President Biden called "Promise Me, Dad" are displayed on a shelf at Book Passage in Corte Madera, California.
 
(Justin Sullivan/Getty Images)
It added, "Our investigation […] did not uncover any evidence that Zwonitzer had been in contact with anyone about his decision to delete the recordings."
Hur 
will not recommend criminal charges
 against Biden for mishandling classified documents, despite finding "evidence that President Biden willfully retained and disclosed classified materials after his vice presidency when he was a private citizen."
The materials included "marked classified documents about military and foreign policy in Afghanistan, and notebooks containing Mr. Biden’s handwritten entries about issues of national security and foreign policy implicating sensitive intelligence sources and methods." 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Special Counsel Robert Hur delivers remarks during a ceremony at the Robert F. Kennedy Main Justice Building in Washington, D.C., on May 9, 2019.
 
(Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images)
Hur said 
FBI agents
 recovered the materials from "the garages, offices, and basement den in Mr. Biden’s Wilmington, Delaware, home." 
The special counsel described Biden as "a sympathetic, well-meaning, elderly man with a poor memory." 
Fox News Digital's Joe Schoffstall, Brooke Singman, David Spunt and Jake Gibson contributed to this report.
Timothy Nerozzi is a writer for Fox News Digital. You can follow him on Twitter @timothynerozzi and can email him at timothy.nerozzi@fox.com
Get the latest updates from the 2024 campaign trail, exclusive interviews and more Fox News politics content.
Subscribed
You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2024 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by
        
Factset
. Powered and implemented by
        
FactSet Digital Solutions
.
        
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by
        
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      