Biden camp reportedly fears photos from special counsel classified docs probe could devastate reelection bid


      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2024 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by
      
Factset
. Powered and implemented by
      
FactSet Digital Solutions
.
      
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by
      
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
FOX News contributor Joe Concha joins "FOX & Friends First" to discuss the report and social media users praising bin Laden's "Letter to America."
President Biden's team reportedly is fearing that photos included in 
Special Counsel Robert Hur's
 imminent report on the handling of classified documents could impact his 2024 reelection bid. 
Axios reported that Biden's aides do not expect criminal charges as a result of the investigation, but they are concerned about potentially embarrassing photos included in Hur's expected report that could be released as soon as this week. The images could show how Biden stored classified materials, which were discovered in late 2022 in the garage of Biden's Delaware home as well as in a private office. The classified documents were carried over from Biden's time as former President Obama's vice president.
Biden's aides told Axios that they are fearful former 
President Trump's
 campaign could use the photos against the Democrat incumbent ahead of their likely 2024 rematch.
Trump himself is facing more than 40 counts, including obstruction of justice and willful retention of national defense information, for improperly storing classified documents at his private residence at Mar-a-Lago in Florida after leaving the White House, following a probe by Special Counsel Jack Smith.
BIDEN INTERVIEWED BY SPECIAL COUNSEL ABOUT CLASSIFIED DOCUMENTS
President Biden speaks at the White House on Oct. 10, 2023. He was interviewed as part of Special Counsel Robert Hur's probe just days prior.
 
(Brendan Smialowski/AFP via Getty Images)
With Hur's report looming, Biden's aides are concerned Trump's campaign could attempt to contrast the handling of the two investigations.
Hur, a former U.S. attorney nominated by Trump in 2017 and a former clerk for conservative Chief Justice William Rehnquist, is obligated to write a report about the investigation, and Biden's aides told Axios they expect the report could come as soon as this week, though the exact timing of its release is unknown.
Former U.S. Attorney for the District of Maryland Robert Hur was tapped by Attorney General Merrick Garland as special counsel to the Biden docs probe.
 
(Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images)
Biden has defended the storing of classified documents in the past.
"By the way, my Corvette is in a locked garage, so it's not like they're sitting out on the street," he once said.
In a 
CBS "60 Minutes' interview
 last fall, Attorney General Merrick Garland vowed to make public a special counsel's report related to another matter – the one related to Hunter Biden – "to the extent permissible under the law" and promised to explain the "decisions to prosecute or not prosecute, and their strategic decisions along the way."
10 UNANSWERED QUESTIONS ABOUT BIDEN'S CLASSIFIED DOCUMENTS
"Usually, the special counsels have testified at the end of their reports, and I expect that that will be the case here," Garland said.
Attorney General Merrick Garland announced the appointment of a special counsel to investigate the discovery of classified documents held by President Biden on Jan. 12, 2023, in Washington, D.C.
 
(Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images)
The Justice Department told Axios that Garland is also committed to releasing Hur's report as well.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Anthony Coley, a former senior adviser to Garland, accused the Biden team of slow-walking discovery in the case.
"Against the backdrop of former President Trump's indictment on charges of willful and deliberate retention of classified documents, the Biden team's drip, drip, drip of information made the discoveries seem even worse," he wrote in an op-ed.
Danielle Wallace is a reporter for Fox News Digital covering politics, crime, police and more. Story tips can be sent to danielle.wallace@fox.com and on Twitter: @danimwallace. 
Get the latest updates from the 2024 campaign trail, exclusive interviews and more Fox News politics content.
Subscribed
You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2024 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by
        
Factset
. Powered and implemented by
        
FactSet Digital Solutions
.
        
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by
        
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      