'Squad's' Jamaal Bowman honored radical Black activist, convicted murderer on middle school's 'Wall of Honor'


      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2024 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by
      
Factset
. Powered and implemented by
      
FactSet Digital Solutions
.
      
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by
      
Refinitiv Lipper
.
    
Co-founder of Speak Georgia Inc. Janelle King and Georgia State Rep Steven Sainz (R) call out Biden for his messaging with minority communities, explain why Democratic policies are losing support among voters.
Far-left "Squad" member Rep. Jamaal Bowman, D-N.Y., honored a 
radical Black activist and convicted murderer
 during a special project at a New York City middle school while serving as its principal before being elected to Congress, according to a YouTube video reviewed by Fox News Digital.
A 
2014 video
 centered on Cornerstone Academy for Social Action Middle School's (CASA) then-"Wall of Action" project shows Bowman praising various historical Black and Latino figures being honored on the wall, including Assata Shakur, who was convicted in the 1973 killing of a New Jersey state trooper. Bowman referred to the people on the wall as "tremendous, tremendous figures."
Shakur, whose real name is JoAnne Chesimard, was a member of the Black nationalist group Black Liberation Army and was serving a life sentence for the fatal shooting of the officer before escaping from prison in 1979 with the help of Mutulu Shakur, another radical Black activist praised by Bowman in the video. She fled to Cuba, where she remains a wanted domestic terrorist today.
HISPANIC BUSINESS OWNER, GOP CANDIDATE RIPS DEM CRIME POLICIES AFTER DRUG ADDICTS TORCH HIS LAS VEGAS PROPERTY
Radical Black liberation activist and convicted murderer Assata Shakur and Rep. Jamaal Bowman, D-N.Y.
 
(Getty Images)
"Each and every member of the Wall of Honor has played a major role in moving our society from a bigoted, oppressive existence toward a world of freedom, justice and equality," Bowman, who was the founder of the school and served as its principal until 2019, said in the video, which was first reported on by the Huffington Post, before naming various other less-controversial figures alongside both Shakurs, like 
former President Barack Obama
 and Booker T. Washington.
Mutulu Shakur was later convicted of armed robbery and of aiding Assata Shakur in her escape from prison. He died last year after being 
released from prison
 around eight months earlier due to his worsening health.
In addition to the Shakurs, who are not related, the wall included former Rep. Cynthia McKinney, D-Ga., a known antisemite and promoter of conspiracy theories, such as that Jews were responsible for the September 11 terrorist attacks.
OBAMA VETERAN WHO BOASTED ABOUT USING ‘KNOW NOTHING’ REPORTERS TO PUSH IRAN DEAL RE-LAUNCHES ANTI-TRUMP GROUP
JoAnn Chesimard, aka Assata Shakur, holding the manuscript of her autobiography with Old Havana, Cuba, in the background on October 7, 1987.
 
(Ozier Muhammad/Newsday RM via Getty Images)
The video also included footage of hip hop artist Chuck D of Public Enemy, whom Bowman referred to as a "legendary hip hop artist and one of the pillars of the hip hop movement and hip hop culture," visiting CASA. Chuck D has a
 long history 
of praising notorious antisemite Louis Farrakhan on his X (formerly known as Twitter) account. In 2020, he referred to a conservative pointing out his Farrakhan ties as "roaches."
In 
another video from 2013
 also mentioned in HuffPost's report, Bowman is seen discussing a career-development event being held at the school, but he has Assata's 1988 book, "Assata: An Autobiography," visibly placed on the table in front of him.
Fox News Digital has reached out to Bowman's office for comment.
According to HuffPost, a spokesperson for Bowman told the outlet, "It is correct that many leaders in the Black liberation movement, from Martin Luther King Jr. and Malcolm X to the names listed in this story, have complicated biographies." 
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
"It is completely baseless, and a rhetorical tool of the far-right, to insinuate educating students on major figures of Black American history is serving to promote hateful or divisive rhetoric or actions," they added.
Fox News' Stephen Sorace and Andrew Murray contributed to this report.
Brandon Gillespie is an associate editor at Fox News. Follow him on X at @BGillespieAL.
Get the latest updates from the 2024 campaign trail, exclusive interviews and more Fox News politics content.
Subscribed
You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

        This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2024 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by
        
Factset
. Powered and implemented by
        
FactSet Digital Solutions
.
        
Legal Statement
. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by
        
Refinitiv Lipper
.
      